{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Introduction}{\author Ann Vickery}{\operator Ann Vickery}{\creatim\yr2002\mo3\dy11\hr11\min16}{\revtim\yr2002\mo3\dy11\hr14}{\version3}{\edmins8}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords947}{\nofchars5403}
{\*\company Home}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\aftnnar\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs24 Introduction
\par Poetry Post-9-11: Witnessing Dissent
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Elisabeth Frost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par This special section of \'93Readings\'94 emerges from a panel at the Modernist Studies Association meeting, held in Houston just one month after September 11.  In the wake of the attacks, it wasn\rquote t clear that anybody would be in Houston for the MSA
\emdash we didn\rquote t even know if the conference would be held.  Nor was it apparent that our own commitments to the panel (\'93Modernist Influence on Contemporary Poetry\'94
) could be maintained even if the conference did go on as scheduled.  As coordinators, Michael Bibby, Cynthia Hogue, and I were extremely grateful
 to Kathleen Fraser, Carla Harryman, and Lorenzo Thomas for gathering to discuss questions of unmistakable urgency in the light of a changing political and cultural landscape.  What emerged was a set of innovative and, in my view, extremely important refl
ections on poetry post-9-11.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 The original purpose of the panel was to explore diverse experiments fostered by modernist poetic radicalism\emdash those somewhat outside of commonly recognized 
\'93avant-gardes,\'94 such as Language writing/theorizing.  We were interested in \'93other\'94
 innovations, often taking place within recognizable lyric and narrative forms.  Our three poets were to read their work; then the panel would open to a roundtable discussion about how modernism has influenced (perhaps frustrated, complicated) th
eir writing.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24  \tab 
Following 9-11, we began to discuss the need for a broader perspective.  There was (and is) a new self-consciousness about doing what we do.  We asked ourselves: Are priorities the same, for ourselves as poets, critics, teachers?  What is the \'93
relevance\'94 of poetry in a time of war, of terrorism, of heated nationalism?  What are the issues that newly confront us as writers, teachers, readers of contemporary and modern poetry?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 The papers that follow all engage variously with these questions.  M
ichael Bibby recounts our e-mail discussions preceding the conference to consider new meanings of \'93innovation\'94 that might move beyond the avant-gardist rhetoric of rupture toward a poetry of \'93suture.\'94
  Two essays in this section were originally presented a
t that MSA panel: Kathleen Fraser documents acts of witnessing, culled from journal entries in the days immediately following 9-11.  To contextualize the current political climate, Lorenzo Thomas returns to the literary scene during and after World War I,
 with a detailed chronology of censorship, racial politics, and artistic repression.  Finally, an additional paper by Frances Presley provides a view from London, considering architecture, the spectacle of grief, and the \'93building\'94
 of a new avant-garde poetics.
\par Especially in the weeks immediately following 9-11, the limits of language came up again and again, whether in informal e-mail exchanges or in mass media representations.  In the \'93Postcards\'94
 section of How2, many wrote in to recount the painful sense of being speechless\emdash as writers, as citizens, a condition of trauma.  In one of the more mainstream articulations of this sense of being robbed of words, Eric McHenry noted Auden\rquote 
s critique and ultimate rejection of \'93September 1, 1939\'94 (which emerged as the ur-poem of 9-11).  McHenry argues that by expressing a sense of his own failure in the poem, \'93Auden kept in play the possibility\emdash by no means a certainty\emdash 
that there are sorrows even the most well-chosen words can\rquote t reach.\'94}{\fs24\super \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\super \chftn }{\fs24  Eric McHenry, \'93Auden on Bin Laden,\'94 }{\i\fs24 Slate}{\fs24  (September 20, 2001).}}}{\fs24   But is it perhaps that the }{\i\fs24 expected}{\fs24  forms of words can\rquote t reach us?  In other words, that the \'93new word,
\'94 the \'93news that stays news,\'94 is yet to be invented for this moment?  Perhaps, then, an innovative poetics in t
he modernist or avant-garde tradition is precisely what is needed?  Or, is the failure of language a response to trauma that any historical or personal disaster might evoke?  What sorts of poetry can be responsive to such inadequacies?  
\par And, further, how 
can poetry respond in a cultural atmosphere that has wrought measures to revoke civil liberties?  Things over the last six months have hardly changed since the days following 9-11, when TV journalists were asked to sign statements of allegiance, and other
s were chastised or dismissed for \'93inappropriate\'94 critiques of U.S. actions.  It is a time when an academic forum (in October) was denounced by the chancellor of his own university (CUNY) because faculty present \'93
blamed United States foreign policy and capitalist cultural messages\'94 as an underlying cause of the attacks.}{\fs24\super \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super \chftn }{\fs24  \'93CUNY Chief Repudiates Forum Remarks,\'94 }{\i\fs24 New York Times}{\fs24  (October 4, 2001) D3.}}}{\fs24 
  There are new surveillance and detention policies, such as the sweeping USA Patriot Act.  In the words of Nat Hentoff, \'93never in the history of the First Amendment has any suppression of speech been so sweeping and difficult to contest as this one,
\'94 which allows the FBI to \'93demand from bookstores and libraries the names of books bought or borrowed by anyone suspected of involvement in \lquote international terrorism\rquote  or \lquote clandestine activities.\rquote \'94}{\fs24\super \chftn 
{\footnote \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super \chftn }{\fs24 Nat Hentoff, \'93Big John Wants Your Reading List,\'94 }{\i\fs24 
The Village Voice}{\fs24  (February 22, 2002).}}}{\fs24   What becomes of writing and publishing in such a climate?  As one example, consider that Barnes and Noble refused to carry Jonathan Tel\rquote s }{\i\fs24 Arafat\rquote s Elephant}{\fs24 
, a collection of short stories, unless the title was changed.  (Since Tel refused, of the big chains, only Borders is carrying the book.)  
\par At the same time, In the midst of all this\emdash from September 12 on\emdash has come a widespread circulation of poems by e-mail, appearances in newspapers and in memorials (both \'93official\'94
 and impromptu), with favorites including its own modernist canon of Moore, Yeats, Heaney, Auden.  Whose \'93modernism\'94 is this?  Whose poetics provides such epigrammatic comforts? 
\par There has been a clarion call for a new \'93accessibility\'94 in our poetry.  Among others, this item from the }{\i\fs24 CLMP Newswire}{\fs24  concerning New York City editors\rquote  responses to \'939-11\'94: Martha Rhodes of Four Way Books describes 
\'93looking more for the essential in language and accessibility.  For the leaner and meaner.\'94}{\fs24\super \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super \chftn }{\fs24  \'93New York in Crisis,\'94 }{\i\fs24 CLMP Newswire}{\fs24  1.14 (October 1, 2001).}}}{\fs24 
\par My own response to shock and speechlessness in New York City was the opposite\emdash to need, desperately, for language to be pushed outward or inward\emdash to change and be changed, to be charged, remade.  What might }{\i\fs24 that}{\fs24 
 new poetry look like?  What sources might it look back to?  And who will be its readers?
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 
\par }{\b\fs24 Bio:}{\fs24  Elisabeth A. Frost is an Assistant Professor of English at Fordham University, where she teaches contemporary American poetry, creative writing, and women\rquote 
s studies.  She has published articles on modern and contemporary poets in }{\i\fs24 Genders}{\fs24 , }{\i\fs24 Postmodern Culture}{\fs24 , }{\i\fs24 Women\rquote s Studies}{\fs24 , and elsewhere.  She has recently completed a book manuscript entitled 
\'93The Feminist Avant-Garde in American Poetry.\'94
\par }}