{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff28\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f28\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}CG Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f29\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040602050305030304}Book Antiqua;}{\f46\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f47\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f49\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f50\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f51\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f52\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f53\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f278\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Book Antiqua CE;}{\f279\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Book Antiqua Cyr;}{\f281\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Book Antiqua Greek;}{\f282\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Book Antiqua Tur;}{\f285\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Book Antiqua Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0
\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f29\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0
\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs48\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\ql \li709\ri0\sl480\slmult0
\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0
\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 header;}{\s18\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Title;}}{\info{\title MSA Panel}{\author UHD}{\operator Ann Vickery}{\creatim\yr2002\mo3\dy1\hr13\min33}{\revtim\yr2002\mo3\dy5\hr11\min37}{\version3}{\edmins7}{\nofpages10}
{\nofwords2281}{\nofchars13003}{\*\company UH-Downtown}{\nofcharsws15968}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri360\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s15\qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpg\phpg\posx5544\posy15120\absw576\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s18\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lorenzo Thomas
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 
\par The original idea [for this panel] was modernist poetic radicalism.  The question came to my mind whether that referred to poetic form or to the consciousness that went into the poems.  In our subsequent conversations, after September 11, the issue of jus
t exactly what is the value of our precious lessons came to my mind, and I insisted there must be some value to what we teach and research.  So I went back to thinking about 1912\emdash the launching of Harriet Monroe\rquote s }{\i\f0\fs24 Poetry}{
\f0\fs24 , one of our landmarks for the birthdate of modernism\emdash to look at what the country\rquote s intellectual atmosphere might have been at that moment.  This is before F. Scott Fitzgerald\rquote s \'93Jazz Age,\'94 before Jean Toomer\rquote s }
{\i\f0\fs24 Cane}{\f0\fs24 , which in 1923 heralded the dawning of the Harlem Renaissance.  In 1916, for example, there weren\rquote t any jazz records yet, and it would be a year before the Texas folklorist John A. Lomax introduced readers of the }{
\i\f0\fs24 Nation}{\f0\fs24  to a form of music called blues, which he usefully described as \'93Negro songs of self\_pity.\'94  
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 So who or what did Americans think black people were?  In 1915, David Wark Griffith\rquote s blockbuster movie \'93Birth of a Nation\'94
 hit the public like a thunderbolt, and President Woodrow Wilson, who had a screening of it in the White House (it was the first movie to be shown in the White House) described it as \'93history written in lightning.\'94
  The White House did not disclose that Rev. Thomas Dixon, who was the author of }{\i\f0\fs24 The Clansman}{\f0\fs24 , a 1905 novel that the movie was based on, happened to be Woodrow Wilson\rquote s grad school chum.  But mos
t people, black people, anyway, understood where the Wilson administration\rquote s racial ideas came from.  Not only did \'93The Birth of a Nation\'94 make lots and lots of money at the box office, it also revitalized the revived Atlanta\_
based Ku Klux Klan.  In fact, at the movie\rquote s premiere in Atlanta, while people stood on line, Klansmen rode down the street on horseback handing out membership applications to the moviegoers.
\par But that was 1915.  
\par 1917 proved that poetry could be hazardous to your health, your bank acco
unt, and your mental stability.  In fact, a poem in 1917 could get you indicted, tried, and perhaps imprisoned.  And the Federal Government in 1917 could prevent the distribution of magazines and newspapers in which the offending poem appeared.  The Espio
n
age Act passed in 1917, followed by the Sedition Act passed in 1918, prepared the United States to enter as a combatant in World War I.  Albert Burleson, the Postmaster General, was able to use the Espionage Act and the Sedition Act to deny mailing privil
eges to any publication that published material critical of the government's war effort.  That act was invoked in 1917 to prevent distribution of the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24 
, a radical, socialist literary journal edited by Max Eastman.  His associates and contributors inclu
ded Floyd Dell, foreign correspondent John Reed, Mabel Dodge, and Dorothy Day.  Indicted with Eastman and six other editorial members for conspiring to obstruct recruitment was the poet Josephine Bell.  Her crime was having written this poem:
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\f0 A Tribute
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 Are in prison. 
\par Although the night is tremblingly beautiful
\par And the sound of water climbs down the rocks 
\par And the breath of the night air moves through multitudes and multitudes of leaves 
\par That love to waste themselves for the sake of the summer. 
\par Emma  Goldman and Alexander Berkman 
\par Are in prison tonight, 
\par But they have made themselves elemental forces, 
\par Like the water that climbs down the rocks:
\par Like the wind in the leaves:
\par Like the gentle night that holds us:
\par They are working on our destinies:
\par They are forging the love of the nations:
\par Tonight they lie in prison.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 
\par }\pard \ql \fi709\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 Now, that poem was supposed to appear in the August 1917 issue of the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24 
.  Postmaster General Burleson seized the issue and refused to have it mailed.  Eastman and company were indicted and tried for obstructing recruitment.  The judge dismissed charges against Josephine Bell when he discovered that she really couldn\rquote 
t be much of a conspirator, inasmuch as like most of the rest of us, I suppose she had simply sent in her poem with a stamped, self\_addressed envelope, and Max Eastman and the rest decided to print it.  
\par But the readers of the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24  knew Emma Goldman as a trained nurse who campaigned vigorously for birth control.  In April 1916, Goldman
 was arrested for giving a birth control lecture.  She decided, like Marcus Garvey and other people that don\rquote t have too much sense, to defend herself.  She was convicted, of course, and sentenced to 15 days in jail.  But the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{
\f0\fs24 , in its June 1916 issue, published her courtroom speech.  Partly it said, \'93Your Honor, if giving one\rquote 
s life for the purpose of awakening race consciousness in the masses, a consciousness that will impel them to bring quality and not quantity into society, if that be a crime, I\rquote m glad to be such a criminal.\'94  
\par \'93After all,\'94 she went on, \'93the question of birth control is largely a working man\rquote s question.  Above all, a working woman\rquote s question.  She it is who risks her health, her youth, her very life, in giving out of herself the uni
ts of the race.  She it is who ought to have the means and the knowledge to say how many children she shall give, and to what purpose she shall give them, and under what conditions she shall bring forth life.\'94 
\par I suppose that that\rquote s the Emma Goldman that Josephine Bell was thinking of when she wrote the poem.  
\par Alexander Berkman is a somewhat different story.  He was an anarchist who attempted to assassinate Carnegie Steel executive Henry Clay Frick during the Homestead Strike.  He spent fourteen years in p
rison, but he went on giving his political speeches once he got out.  The }{\i\f0\fs24 cause c\'e9l\'e8bre }{\f0\fs24 
of 1917 is that both Goldman and Berkman were arrested for obstructing the draft.  And that has something to do with  the Post Office citing Josephine Bell\rquote s poem. 
\par Of course, in 1919, both Berkman and Goldman were eventually deported, along with 247 other undesirable aliens and anarchists.  But regarding the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses }{\f0\fs24 trial, Margaret Jones\emdash in }{\i\f0\fs24 Heretics and Hell\_
Raisers: Woman Contributors to}{\f0\fs24  }{\i\f0\fs24 The Masses\emdash }{\f0\fs24 points out:
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24  
\par }\pard \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 {\f0\fs24 The charge was a serious one.  The labor activist and }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24  contributor
\par Rose Pastor Stokes was later to receive a ten\_year sentence under the 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Espionage Act for writing to a Kansas newspaper, \'93I am for the people 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 and the government is for the profiteers.\'94  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 
\par Another }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24  contributor, graphic artist Henry J. Glintencamp was indicted for a drawing depicting a skeleton measuring a draftee for a uniform.  The post office saw it as an offense under the Espionage Act\emdash 
not as another homage to the traditional art motif of \'93Death-in-Life.\'94  But then maybe the readers didn\rquote t see it that way, either.  
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 Max Eastman and his associates had a lot of financial backing.  And they went through two trials and won.  But, of course, the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24 
 magazine went defunct in the interim, and he replaced it with a magazine called }{\i\f0\fs24 Liberator}{\f0\fs24 .  
\par Besides birth control and the draft, race was a particularly sensitive issue to the government, partly because these years\emdash before the Jazz Age and the Harlem Renaissance and America\rquote s involvement in World War I\emdash 
provided a great deal of material for those people who wanted to point out that democracy, in some parts of this country anyway, was quite as unsafe as it was anyplace else in the world.  In September 1916, the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24 
 ran an eyewitness report on conditions in Waco, Texas, the day after a 17\_year\_
old black youth named Jesse Washington was dragged out of the courtroom where he was being tried, and roasted over a bonfire in the courthouse square.  Photographs taken from the vantage point of City Hall
 were later sold as postcards, souvenirs of that incident.  The NAACP journal, the }{\i\f0\fs24 Crisis}{\f0\fs24 , devoted a whole issue\emdash I believe it was in September 1916\emdash to that Waco atrocity. 
\par Fenton Johnson\rquote s Chicago magazine the }{\i\f0\fs24 Champion}{\f0\fs24  pointedly compared Waco to the casual
ties incurred by a black cavalry unit on duty in Mexico.  They were on a mission to arrest Pancho Villa, but they blundered into the Mexican Civil War and were taken prisoners, resulting in President Wilson calling up National Guardsmen and massing fifty 
thousand in Texas troops at the border\endash threatening war with Mexico.  
\par The African\_American press, like the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24 , was also subject to the intimidation of government readers, so to speak; and, unlike the }{\i\f0\fs24 Masses}{\f0\fs24  and other wealthy liberals, did not have the r
esources to fight against it.  During 1918, the Justice Department under Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer conducted extensive research and surveillance with a newly\_established task force.  And that group, headed by a young man named J. Edgar Hoover
\emdash on his first job\emdash explored and researched what Hoover called \'93radicalism and sedition among Negroes as reflected in their publications.\'94
  They published a wonderful report in the documents of the 66th Congress, issued by the Government Printing Office, which essentially is quite an interesting anthology of African\_American writing in 1915, 1916, 1917, 1918, and 1919.  
\par Newspaper and magazine editors also might get a visit from Maj. Walter Loving, who was a black Army officer.  He earned his commission in the Sp
anish-American War.  There were very few black officers in the United States Army then; none in the United States Navy.  But Walter Loving was attached to the Military Intelligence Branch  (MIB) and worked in plainclothes, attending political and intellec
tual meetings in Harlem, Chicago and elsewhere.  Of course everyone knew who he was.  When he showed up to have an appointment with Robert Abbott at the }{\i\f0\fs24 Chicago Defender, }{\f0\fs24 
Mr. Abbott knew that the message was that some of his editorials had annoyed someone in Washington, D.C. 
\par Here in Houston, in September 1917, what is now Memorial Park was called Camp Logan.  And the same 9}{\f0\fs24\super th}{\f0\fs24  and 10}{\f0\fs24\super th}{\f0\fs24  Cavalry, and the 25th Infantry\emdash the \'93Buffalo soldiers\'94\emdash 
that had gotten in the scrape in Mexico in 1916, were stationed here as security guards for the building of Camp Logan. The facility was intended to be a training base for those soldiers going to Europe\emdash \'93over there\'94
 where the Yanks were coming.  After a month or so of insults and racist abuse from the Houston Police Department and the public, an incident took place on San Felipe Street.  The soldiers were outraged and marched on the town from their base.  That
\rquote s described as the Houston Riot.  The upshot is several people were killed.  Most were black soldiers, also white policemen and citizens who armed themselves to attack the soldiers or perhaps to defend them.  
\par Thirteen of the soldiers were court\_martialed and hanged.  Forty\_one were court\_martialed and given life imprisonment.  All of these trials went on within a bewild
eringly short period of time, much before the press knew anything about the incident.  When Archibald Grimk\'e9, who was a well\_known lawyer in Washington, D.C., wrote a poem called \'93Her Thirteen Black Soldiers,\'94 it was rejected by the }{
\i\f0\fs24 Atlantic Monthly}{\f0\fs24 .  It went from there to the }{\i\f0\fs24 Crisis}{\f0\fs24 , which was edited by W.E.B. Du Bois, and according to Jervis Anderson in his biography of A. Philip Randolph, Du Bois admitted to Archibald Grimk\'e9 that
\emdash even though Grimk\'e9 was head of the Washington D.C. NAACP chapter\emdash because of Justice Department scrutiny and the fact that the Justice Department had found some of Du Bois\rquote s }{\i\f0\fs24 Crisis }{\f0\fs24 
editorials disloyal, he dared not print this poem. A. Philip Randolph\rquote s }{\i\f0\fs24 Messenger}{\f0\fs24  did eventually print the poem \'93Her Thirteen Black Soldiers,\'94 along with an editorial note pointing out that both  the }{\i\f0\fs24 
Atlantic Monthly}{\f0\fs24  and the }{\i\f0\fs24 Crisis}{\f0\fs24  had not dared to print the poem. 
\par That editorial note was typical of Randolph\rquote s style at the time.  J. Edgar Hoover\rquote s investigative report to Congress described the }{\i\f0\fs24 Messenger}{\f0\fs24  magazine, a socialist journal, as the \'93
most dangerous of the Negro publications\'94\emdash a quotation which Randolph and his co\_editor Chandler Owen promptly used as an advertising blurb.  But in 1919 the }{\i\f0\fs24 Messenger}{\f0\fs24  still had the national resources of the Socialist 
Party to support it; when that went away in a few years, they no longer used that line as an advertising blurb
\par Before I finish, I want to mention two other poets who turn up in Hoover\rquote s A\_list.  One was Walter Everett Hawkins, a poet frequently included in the }{\i\f0\fs24 Messenger}{\f0\fs24 .  His poem \'93Where Air of Freedom Is\'94
 is among those that you can find in the government publications as evidence of \'93radicalism and sedition among Negroes as reflected in their publications.\'94 Investigators cited this poem as particularly offensive:
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \i\f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Where Air of Freedom Is
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 
\par Where air of freedom is, 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 I will not yield to men,\emdash 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 To narrow caste of men 
\par Whose hearts are steeped in sin. 
\par I\rquote d rather sell the king 
\par And let his goods be stole,
\par Than yield to base control 
\par Of vile and godless men.  
\par 
\par Where air of freedom is, 
\par I will not yield to men. 
\par I\rquote d rather choose to die
\par Than be a living lie,\emdash 
\par A lie in all I teach, 
\par A lie in all I preach, 
\par While truth within my heart 
\par Its burning fires dart 
\par To burn my mask of sin.  
\par I\rquote d rather victory win 
\par Thru martyr\rquote s death than grin
\par At wrongs of godless men. 
\par 
\par Where air of freedom is, 
\par I will not yield to men.  
\par I spurn the alms of men,
\par The livery of kings,
\par I own far nobler things.  
\par I\rquote d rather choose to own 
\par The pauper\rquote s garb and bone,
\par The eagle\rquote s eye of truth,
\par The lion\rquote s strength of youth,
\par The liberty of thought,
\par A free man\rquote s right, unbought,
\par A conscience and a soul 
\par Beyond the king\rquote s control 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Than be the lord of slaves 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 Of quaking, aching slaves,
\par Of senseless, soulless knaves,
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li709\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Or seek to revel in 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li709\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin709\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 His ill\_got wealth and fame, 
\par His world-wide name of shame, 
\par His liberty to sin,\emdash 
\par }\pard \ql \fi11\li1429\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1429\itap0 {\f0\fs24 I will not yield to men!
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24 Another poet was Fenton Johnson in Chicago, whose work I describe in my book }{\i\f0\fs24 Extraordinary Measures}{\f0\fs24 
.  Johnson was a very interesting poet\emdash avant\_garde in style.  He started publishing poems around 1913 in the dialect poetry style of Paul Laurence Dunbar, which was enormously popular at the time.  But then he progressed into a kind of pr
ose poetry.  Johnson, was, in fact, silenced by the attention of J. Edgar Hoover and his agents.  Because Johnson had simply a little magazine, he had no one to \'93watch his back.\'94
 He did not have the hundred thousand NAACP members behind him.  He did not have the funding of the Socialist Party behind him.  And, after 1921, this most promising African\_
American poet, a pioneer of modernist technique, is not heard from again until he turns up in the 1930s\emdash glum and aging\emdash on the Federal Writers\rquote  Project in Chicag
o where he worked briefly with Richard Wright, Margaret Walker,  and others. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs24  \tab 
One of the poems that brought Fenton Johnson under the scrutiny of the special unit that eventually became the FBI was his parody of the Psalms printed in his }{\i\f0\fs24 Favorite Magazine,}{\f0\fs24  in the Autumn1920 issue, called \'93
Prayer for our Enemies\'94:
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f29\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\f0\fs24 
\par }\pard \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b0\i\f0\fs24 A Prayer for Our Enemies
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs24 
\par }{\f0\fs24 ALMIGHTY FATHER  I am praying for my enemies! 
\par Almighty father lift up my enemies.  
\par Almighty father be as a honeycomb to my enemies. 
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the moon to the young lovers 
\par    in the June of life. 
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the voice of Gabriel laughing
\par    in the Heavens. 
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the smiling face of God. 
\par 
\par ALMIGHTY FATHER be to my enemies as the Song of Israel when 
\par    the hosts assembled for  the evening. 
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the breath of the Holy One. 
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the Day is to the soul of 
\par    the wayward child.
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the Light is in the night of despair. 
\par Almighty father be to my enemies as the love of a Christian for
\par   the Church of God. 
\par Almighty father deal with the white South as I would have you 
\par   deal those who hate me for they know not what they do.
\par }}